caf: power_manager: Update documentation (#21524)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/caf/power_manager.rst

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_ERROR_TIMEOUT` option sets the period of time after which the device is turned off upon an internal error.

Blocking system off
===================

The :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` Kconfig option prevents system off (:c:func:`sys_poweroff`) even if there are no active :ref:`power state restrictions <caf_power_manager_power_state_restrictions>`.
If the option is enabled, device stays in suspended state, but will not enter the system off state.
If power off functionality (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_POWEROFF`) is disabled, the module never enters the system off state (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` is enabled and has no prompt - cannot be changed by the user).

Forcing power down
==================

> If the :c:struct:`force_power_down_event` is enabled in configuration (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_FORCE_POWER_DOWN_EVENTS`), any application module can submit the event to force a quick power down without waiting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the :c:struct:`force_power_down_event` event is enabled in the configuration (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_FORCE_POWER_DOWN_EVENTS`), any application module can submit the event to force a quick power down without waiting.
```

The event triggers instantly suspending the application.

Clearing reset reason
=====================

The module by default clears the reset reason register (``RESETREAS``) right before entering the system off state (right before calling :c:func:`sys_poweroff`).
This is done to avoid starting serial recovery if nobody has cleared it already.
Disable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_CLEAR_RESET_REASON` Kconfig option to prevent this behavior.

> Clearing reset reason functionality is not supported for nRF54H Series SoC (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54HX`).

Author: I will inform that we do not need it as it's not used by SUIT (`we don't support system off yet` is not necessary here and we would need to remember about updating it later on).

.. note::
  The reset reason register is not cleared in case system is turned off after a fatal error.

Implementation details
**********************

The |power_manager| is started when the "main" is ready (which is reported using :c:struct:`module_state_event`).

> The module is responsible for controlling application power state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The module is responsible for controlling the application power state.
```

**********************

The |power_manager| is started when the "main" is ready (which is reported using :c:struct:`module_state_event`).
The module is responsible for controlling application power state.
A dedicated set of application events can be used to communicate with the |power_manager|.

> When started, it can perform the following operations:

Author: I will add a brief summary at the top of `Implementation details` section

* `Idle`_

> * `Suspended/Off`_

Reviewer 2: Why merging those two states?

Author: off state is actually suspended state with `sys_poweroff`. As we always go through suspended before going to off, grouping these states and separating them from error states might improve readability.

Reviewer: I think it is better to keep both state separately. Suspended/off gives an impression that its either Suspended or off state, which is not the case.

> * `Error/Error Off`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Error`_
```
I think this would be a better heading. since the section describes the error state?

Author: Sure, aligned

.. figure:: images/caf_power_manager_states.svg
   :alt: Power manager state handling in CAF

   Power manager state handling in CAF

See the following sections for more details on every application power state.

Idle
----

> In this state, the |power_manager| does not limit power consumption.

Author: CAF power manager limits power consumption by making other application modules disable some of their functionalities. It also enters system off state to reduce the power consumption further. I.e. `CAF power manager controls behavior of application in order to optimize power consumption.`

> In this state, the |power_manager| does not limit power consumption.

Author: I will improve this a bit to avoid ambiguity

.. _caf_power_manager_suspending_application_modules:

Suspending application modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The |power_manager| submits :c:struct:`power_down_event`.
While handling the event, application modules turn off the used peripherals or switch them to standby to conserve power.
Only after all application modules confirmed that they have entered the low power state (by not consuming the :c:struct:`power_down_event`), the |power_manager| sets the required application power state.
The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of the :c:struct:`power_down_event`.
Reception of the :c:struct:`power_down_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can continue power down sequence.
See :c:struct:`power_down_event` documentation for details regarding handling the event in application modules.

Suspending application modules is done to reduce CPU workload and suspend the peripherals.
It is assumed that the operating system will conserve power by setting the CPU state to idle whenever possible.

> If the system power management (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM`) is enabled, reducing CPU workload also allows to enter deeper CPU sleep states.

Author: Changed to:
```
If the system power management (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM`) is enabled, reducing CPU workload also allows the system power management to enter deeper CPU sleep states.
```

System off state
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After suspending the application modules, the |power_manager| can trigger entering the system off state (:c:func:`sys_poweroff`) to reduce the power consumption further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After suspending the application modules, the |power_manager| calls :c:func:`sys_poweroff`, so that it enters the system off state to reduce the power consumption further.
```
Please check the meaning.

Author: Rephrased a bit:
```
After suspending the application modules, the |power_manager| calls :c:func:`sys_poweroff`, so that system enters the off state to reduce the power consumption further.
```

The |power_manager| switches the application to the deep sleep (system off) mode if no module :ref:`restricts the system off state <caf_power_manager_power_state_restrictions>` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` Kconfig option is disabled.

> Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.

Author: I would prefer to use `submit` term here as we use `APP_EVENT_SUBMIT` API for that purpose

> Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.

Reviewer: Then please remove the article before the API. 

_Switching the application to the system off state is performed by sending :c:struct:`power_off_event`._

The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
Reception of the :c:struct:`power_off_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can safely call the :c:func:`sys_poweroff` API to enter the system off state.
See :c:struct:`power_off_event` documentation for details regarding handling the event in application modules.

Eventually all of the application modules are suspended and the CPU is switched to the deep sleep (off) mode.
In the system off state, the CPU is not running.

Wake-up scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Application wake-up is used to switch from the suspended or power off state back to the idle state.

> This is normally done on some external event, for example upon interaction from the user of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is normally done by some external event, for example, your interaction on the device.
```

There are two wake-up scenarios:

> * Wake-up from the suspended state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wake-up from the suspended state.
```

  Any module can trigger the application to switch from the suspended state back to the idle state by submitting a :c:struct:`wake_up_event`.
  The |power_manager| sets the application to the idle state.
  Then application modules receive a :c:struct:`wake_up_event`, which switches them back to the normal operation.

> * Wake-up from the system off state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Wake-up from the system off state.
```

  Before the application enters the off state, an application module must configure the peripheral under its control, so that it issues a hardware-related event capable of rebooting the CPU (that is, capable of leaving the CPU off mode).
  After the reboot, the application reinitializes itself.

Error/Error Off
---------------

> When any application module switches to the error state (that is, broadcasts :c:enum:`MODULE_STATE_ERROR` through :c:struct:`module_state_event`), the |power_manager| puts the application into the error state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When any application module switches to the error state (that is, broadcasts :c:enumerator:`MODULE_STATE_ERROR` through :c:struct:`module_state_event`), the |power_manager| puts the application into the error state.
```

Author: Thanks!

The application modules are :ref:`suspended <caf_power_manager_suspending_application_modules>` using :c:struct:`power_down_event` with :c:member:`power_down_event.error` set to ``true``.
The error field indicates that some of the application modules can stay active to report the error condition to the user (for example, :ref:`caf_leds` can keep working in the error state to display information about the error).

> Then, after the period of time defined by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_ERROR_TIMEOUT`, the |power_manager| suspends the remaining application modules using :c:struct:`power_down_event` with :c:member:`power_down_event.error` set to ``false``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, after the period of time defined by the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_ERROR_TIMEOUT` Kconfig option, the |power_manager| suspends the remaining application modules using :c:struct:`power_down_event` with :c:member:`power_down_event.error` set to ``false``.
```

Then, the |power_manager| unconditionally triggers entering the system error off state using :c:struct:`power_off_event` with :c:member:`power_off_event.error` set to ``true``.

> If entering the system off after the error, the :ref:`power state restrictions <caf_power_manager_power_state_restrictions>` and value of :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` Kconfig option are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If entering the system off after the error, the :ref:`power state restrictions <caf_power_manager_power_state_restrictions>` and value of the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` Kconfig option are ignored.
```

==================

If the :c:struct:`force_power_down_event` is enabled in the configuration (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_FORCE_POWER_DOWN_EVENTS`), any application module can submit the event to force a quick power down without waiting.
The event triggers instantly suspending the application.

Clearing reset reason
=====================

The module by default clears the reset reason register (``RESETREAS``) right before entering the system off state (right before calling :c:func:`sys_poweroff`).
This is done to avoid starting MCUboot serial recovery if nobody has cleared it already.
Disable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_CLEAR_RESET_REASON` Kconfig option to prevent this behavior.
Clearing reset reason functionality is not used for the nRF54H Series SoC (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SOC_SERIES_NRF54HX`) as it uses SUIT DFU.

.. note::
  The reset reason register is not cleared in case system is turned off after a fatal error.

Implementation details
**********************

The |power_manager| is started when the "main" is ready (which is reported using :c:struct:`module_state_event`).
The module is responsible for controlling the application power state:

> * If device is in use, the |power_manager| keeps everything active and temporarily allows for bigger power consumption to ensure high responsiveness.
> * When device is not used for a longer period of time, the |power_manager| suspends the application to reduce the power consumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the device is in use, the |power_manager| keeps everything active and temporarily allows for bigger power consumption to ensure high responsiveness.
* When the device is not used for a longer period of time, the |power_manager| suspends the application to reduce the power consumption.
```

>   In case of user action while in suspended state, the |power_manager| switches the application back to the active state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In case of user action while in a suspended state, the |power_manager| switches the application back to the active state.
```

Suspended
---------

Upon the power-down timeout, the |power_manager| switches the application to the suspended state.
The |power_manager| suspends application modules to reduce power consumption.
After suspending the application modules, the |power_manager| might call :c:func:`sys_poweroff`, so that system enters the off state to reduce the power consumption further.

.. _caf_power_manager_suspending_application_modules:

Suspending application modules
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The |power_manager| submits :c:struct:`power_down_event`.
While handling the event, application modules turn off the used peripherals or switch them to standby to conserve power.

> Only after all application modules confirm that they have entered the low power state (by not consuming the :c:struct:`power_down_event`), the |power_manager| sets the required application power state.
> The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of the :c:struct:`power_down_event`.
> Reception of the :c:struct:`power_down_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can continue power down sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only after all application modules confirm that they have entered the low power state (by not setting the :c:struct:`power_down_event`), the |power_manager| sets the required application power state.
The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of :c:struct:`power_down_event`.
Reception of :c:struct:`power_down_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can continue power down sequence.
```

Author: `consuming` is more proper here

```
The event handler gets a pointer to the app_event_header structure as the function argument. The function should return true to consume the event, which means that the event is not propagated to further listeners, or false, otherwise.
```
Ref: https://docs.nordicsemi.com/bundle/ncs-latest/page/nrf/libraries/others/app_event_manager.html#implementing_an_event_handler_function

See the :c:struct:`power_down_event` documentation for details regarding handling the event in application modules.

Suspending application modules is done to reduce CPU workload and suspend the peripherals.
It is assumed that the operating system will conserve power by setting the CPU state to idle whenever possible.
If the system power management (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_PM`) is enabled, reducing CPU workload also allows the system power management to enter deeper CPU sleep states.

Wake-up scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Any module can trigger the application to switch from the suspended state back to the idle state by submitting a :c:struct:`wake_up_event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any module can trigger the application to switch from the suspended state back to the idle state by submitting :c:struct:`wake_up_event`.
```

This is normally done on some external event, for example, your interaction on the device.
The |power_manager| sets the application to the idle state.

> Then application modules receive a :c:struct:`wake_up_event`, which switches them back to the normal operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then application modules receive :c:struct:`wake_up_event`, which switches them back to the normal operation.
```

Off
---

After suspending the application modules, the |power_manager| can trigger entering the system off state (:c:func:`sys_poweroff`) to reduce the power consumption further.
The |power_manager| switches the application to the deep sleep (system off) mode if no module :ref:`restricts the system off state <caf_power_manager_power_state_restrictions>` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_POWER_MANAGER_STAY_ON` Kconfig option is disabled.

> Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
```

> Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
> The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of the :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
> Reception of the :c:struct:`power_off_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can safely call the :c:func:`sys_poweroff` API to enter the system off state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Switching the application to the system off state is performed by submitting :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
The |power_manager| registers itself as the final subscriber of :c:struct:`power_off_event`.
Reception of :c:struct:`power_off_event` indicates that the |power_manager| can safely call the :c:func:`sys_poweroff` API to enter the system off state.
```
